
Thoughts about Starlight Grid
#############################

:date: 2020-11-09 22:00
:tags: predesign
:category: Blog
:authors: Steven Black
:summary: Some early ideas about the project.

We are still in the early stages of this product. Design is active and
ongoing.

A core notion of the product is that it gamifies your own writing world.
The way I see this happening is by integrating outline features in to
the software in new and different ways. One way this can play out is
through a user interface that is interesting to live stream.

I had decided on writing the application in Python 3 with wxWidgets,
and I went to the wxWidgets site to find... Looky there, an authoring
application in wxWidgets. That's certainly enough to make me feel
confident about my choice of library.

This means that the initial release of the application will be a
cross-platform desktop application. (Linux, macOS, and Windows -- and
all with native user interfaces.) I'd like to have a decent mobile
application as well, but that's really only as an aid to the features
that make most sense in a desktop application.

The software is going to written with a library + front-end design.
The library is focused on functional code that can be used either in
front-end applications or on a (later) web-based backend. (I'd like to
have a text-based front-end as well as the GUI one, but that's a very
low priority when some of what I want can not happen in text mode.)

There will be definitely be a server at some point. Initially the
server will lean on social features that facilitate gamefication.

When it comes to word count, both in terms of words per minute as well
as progress, we go with personalized settings based upon individual
user's speed and goals. You need to be able to compare meaningfully with
people of radically different speeds.

The software is going to be written with an open-source design. It
will follow the Wordpress model where there is additional material and
service if you pay for an account, but the software itself is free.

How does this work? Well, there's ease of integration with other users,
but turning it in to a game may involve ambient sound tracks, sound
effects, and some SVG graphics. All of these will require licensing,
which means we need to be paid so we can pass on the money.

I want gamification of writing to result in a writing experience that is
both fun as well as interesting when streamed. This is definitely a high
priority feature and if we can't get this, then it reduces the value of
the whole thing.

Gamification of the outline process, both before writing and after the
first draft, seems like an under-utilized feature. Consider that there
is a whole subgame in something like The Sims which is about character
generation and design and... Things can be gamified in a "paper doll"
manner pretty easily.

There is a whole subsection of games that lean on randomization and
letting the system make as many choices as possible. They're more
passive, if not completely passive. This aspect of gamification
should be available as much as possible, too.

This opens up the possibilty that there could, in fact, be a mode where
you need to race the computer and if you are too slow, it selects words
for you. Ideally, this would incude character-specific predective text.

A fully gamified experience would have the system walk you through
writing a book. Gently prodding and inspiring the next scene and chapter
to unfold. It would literally be a game that also involved writing
a book. It would also (eventually) be possible to have a hands-free
version of the game that used speech technologies with questions,
answers, and piecing paragraphs and scenes together.


